Virt pools (#52)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/reference/pages/systems/system-details/sd-virtualization.adoc

This tab allows you to create new virtual guests, apply images on a
traditionally managed host system, or change the status of virtual guests.

> It also allows to list an manage the storage pools that are used for the virtual machines.

Author: ACK

image::system_details_traditional_virtualization_deployment.png[scaledwidth=80%]

When the deploment scheduled it is listed as an action on the menu:Main Menu[Schedule > Pending Actions].

> == Storage [Salt]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Storage for Salt Clients
```

image::system_details_traditional_virtualization_deployment.png[scaledwidth=80%]

When the deploment scheduled it is listed as an action on the menu:Main Menu[Schedule > Pending Actions].

> == Storage [Salt]

Author: What do you mean? This describes the `Storage` sub-tab in the `Virtualization` tab.

> == Storage [Salt]

Reviewer: I was referring to the markup. Why do you have Salt in square brackets?

> == Storage [Salt]

Author: to mimic the other sections and indicate this is a Salt-only feature. Feel free to present it how you like.

> The [guimenu]``Storage`` tab presents a tree list of the virtual storage pools and volumes defined on the virtual host.

Author: ACK

The first level of the tree is the list of storage pools and all items contained in them are volumes.

> By default the pools need to be expanded to show the volumes.

Author: ACK

image::modules/reference/assets/images/system_details_salt_virtual_pools.png[scaledwidth=80%]

> For each pool the following information is provided:

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Status``::

> This field indicates whether the pool is running or stopped.

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Autostart``::

> This field indicates whether the pool is started automatically when the virtual host boots

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Persistent``::

> This field indicates whether the pool will be kept or not after being stopped.

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Location``::

> This field indicates the target path of the storage pool.

Author: ACK

> Note that some pool types don't have any associated path.

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Usage``::

> This field shows the disk usage of the pool or [guimenu]``Unknown`` if the pool is not running.

Author: ACK

> For each volume the following information is provided:

Author: ACK

> * The names of the virtual machines using the volume.

Author: ACK

> This list may not be provided depending on the pool type.

Author: ACK

* The disk usage of the volume.

> 

Author: OK

=== Refreshing a pool

> [systemitem]``Libvirt`` doesn't update the pool usage and contents in real time.

Author: ACK

> In order to update the usage or to see a volume that has been created outside of {productname}, the pool needs to be refreshed.

Author: ACK

Click the [guimenu]``Refresh`` button to schedule a refresh of the pool.

> === Creating a pool

Author: ACK

> To create a storage pool click the [guimenu]``Create Pool`` button.

Reviewer: This should be a procedure.

Author: OK, how is that supposed to appear? prefixed with `[procedure]`?

Reviewer: I've edited, please confirm.

Author: it's good for me

This opens a new page with a form to define the pool.
It contains the following fields:

[guimenu]``name``::
The name of the pool to create.

[guimenu]``type``::
The type of the pool to create.
The list of available types depends on the virtual host setup.
// TODO Add a note on the supported types pointing to SUSE Documentation

[guimenu]``Start during virtual host boot``::
When this box is checked the storage pool will be automatically started during the virtual host boot.

[guimenu]``Earliest``::
The earliest time the pool creation action should be scheduled.

[guimenu]``Add to``::
Add the pool creation action to a new or already created action chain.

All the remaining fields are depending on the selected field type.
These fields are grouped in two panels:

* the [guimenu]``Source`` panel contains the data about the device holding the pool.
* the [guimenu]``Target`` panel contains the data about where to find the pool on the virtual host.

> ==== Source fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Source Fields
```

I'm not sure this needs to be a heading.

Author: It's a field group in the dialog. I leave it up to you how to group those in the doc, if we want them grouped there at all

Reviewer: I think leave it how it is for now, I'll need to go over this section once it's in to do the final edit.

[guimenu]``Device path``::
Path to a device containing the pool data

[guimenu]``Partition separator``::

> Tell libvirt to use ``'p'`` as a partition separator in the path name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use ``'p'`` as a partition separator in the path name.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Format``::
Select the format of the pool source.

> The values from this field are depending on the pool type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The available values depend on the pool type.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Host name``::
IP or FQDN of the remote machine providing access to the pool.

[guimenu]``Port``::
Port of the remote machine providing access to the pool.

[guimenu]``iSCSI Qualified Name``::

> iSCSI Qualified Name of the iSCSI target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Qualified name of the iSCSI target.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``IQN Initiator``::

> iSCSI Qualified Name of the initiator to connect to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
iSCSI qualified name of the initiator to connect to.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Username``::

> Username to use to connect to the remote storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Username to use to connect to remote storage.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Passphrase``::

> Password to use to connect to the remote storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Password to use to connect to remote storage.
```

Author: ACK

For RBD pools, this is the base64 encoded key.

[guimenu]``Source name``::
Name of the storage pool source.

[guimenu]``Directory``::
Path to the directory of the pool.

[guimenu]``Subdirectory``::
Absolute path relative to the Gluster volume to use.

[guimenu]``Adapter type``::

> Select the controller type, either``fc_host`` or ``scsi_host``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controller type, either``fc_host`` or ``scsi_host``.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Adapter name``::
SCSI adapter name for ``scsi_host`` controller.

[guimenu]``Adapter parent PCI address``::

> PCI address of the SCSI host in the ``0000:00:00.0`` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PCI address of the SCSI host in ``0000:00:00.0`` format.
```

Author: ACK

> Those can be listed using [systemitem]``lsscsi -v``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List options with [command]``lsscsi -v``.
```

Author: ACK

[guimenu]``Adapter parent wwnn``::
World Wide Node Name used by the ``fc_host`` to identify the vHBA parent device.

[guimenu]``Adapter parent wwpn``::
World Wide Port Name used by the ``fc_host`` to identify the vHBA parent device.

[guimenu]``Adapter parent fabric wwn``::
Fabric WWN of the vHBA parent device.

[guimenu]``Adapter wwnn``::
World Wide Node Name used by the ``fc_host`` to identify the vHBA device.

[guimenu]``Adapter wwpn``::
World Wide Port Name used by the ``fc_host`` to identify the vHBA device.

[guimenu]``Manage vHBA deletion``::
If checked the vHBA will be destroyed with the pool is destroyed.
This property will be automatically activated if there is no existing vHBA.

==== Target fields

[guimenu]``Path``::
Path to the storage pool mount or device on the virtual host.

[guimenu]``Owner ID``::
ID of the user owning the path folder or file.

[guimenu]``Group ID``::
ID of the group owning the path folder or file.

[guimenu]``Permission mode``::
Octal representation of the permissions to set on the path folder or file.

[guimenu]``SELinux label``::
SELinux label to set on the path folder or file.

=== Editing a pool

> To edit the properties of storage pool, click the [guimenu]``Edit pool`` button in the pool's row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit the properties of a storage pool, locate the pool in the list and click [guimenu]``Edit pool``.
```

Author: ACK

> A dialog with the same fields than when creating a pool will be opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: ACK

> === Deleting a pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Deleting a Pool
```

Author: ACK

> To delete a storage pool, click the [guimenu]``Delete`` button in the pool's row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a storage pool, locate the pool in the list and click [guimenu]``Delete``.
```

Author: ACK

> By default the action only removes the storage pool definition but keeps the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, deleting a pool only removes the storage pool definition.
The pool data is kept on disk.
```

Author: ACK

> To really clear the data, click the checkbox in the opened modal dialog before click the [guimenu]``Delete`` confirmation button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the pool data as well the storage pool definition, check the [guimenu]``something`` box before you click [guimenu]``Delete``.
```

Need to check the name of the box.

Author: Shouldn't it be `as well as the storage pool definition` ?

Author: The checkbox label is `Delete the pool, including the contained volumes. Cannot be undone`. Not sure if you want to have the complete label in the doc.

> Note that actually deleting the volumes and pool is depending on the pool type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some pool types will not allow you to delete the volumes or the pool.
```

Author: ACK

image::system_details_traditional_virtualization_deployment.png[scaledwidth=80%]

When the deploment scheduled it is listed as an action on the menu:Main Menu[Schedule > Pending Actions].

== Storage [Salt]

The [guimenu]``Storage`` tab shows a tree list of the virtual storage pools and volumes that are defined on the virtual host.
The first level of the tree is the list of storage pools and all items contained in them are volumes.
Expand the pools to show the volumes.

image::modules/reference/assets/images/system_details_salt_virtual_pools.png[scaledwidth=80%]

Each pool shows:

[guimenu]``Status``::
The pool is either running or stopped.

[guimenu]``Autostart``::
The pool starts automatically when the virtual host boots.

[guimenu]``Persistent``::
The pool will be kept after being stopped.

[guimenu]``Location``::
The target path of the storage pool.
Note that some pool types don't have an associated path.

[guimenu]``Usage``::
The disk usage of the pool.
Shows ``Unknown`` if the pool is not running.

Each volume shows:

* The name of the virtual machines using the volume.
Some pool types will not provide this list.

* The disk usage of the volume.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Refresh the pool to see updated usage statistics, or to see a volume that has been created outside of {productname}.
Click the [guimenu]``Refresh`` button to schedule a refresh of the pool.

=== Creating a Pool

To create a storage pool click the [guimenu]``Create Pool`` button.
This opens a new page with a form to define the pool.
It contains the following fields:

[guimenu]``name``::
The name of the pool to create.

[guimenu]``type``::
The type of the pool to create.
The list of available types depends on the virtual host setup.
// TODO Add a note on the supported types pointing to SUSE Documentation

[guimenu]``Start during virtual host boot``::
When this box is checked the storage pool will be automatically started during the virtual host boot.

[guimenu]``Earliest``::
The earliest time the pool creation action should be scheduled.

[guimenu]``Add to``::
Add the pool creation action to a new or already created action chain.

All the remaining fields are depending on the selected field type.
These fields are grouped in two panels:

* the [guimenu]``Source`` panel contains the data about the device holding the pool.

> * the [guimenu]``Target`` panel contains the data about where to find the pool on the virtual host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Creating a Pool

. Click btn:[Create Pool] 
. This opens a new page with a form to define the pool.
. In the [guimenu]``name`` field, type a name for the new pool.
. In the [guimenu]``type`` field, select the type of the pool.
The list of available types depends on the virtual host setup.
// TODO Add a note on the supported types pointing to SUSE Documentation
. Check the [guimenu]``Start during virtual host boot`` field, to start the pool automatically when the virtual host boots.
. OPTIONAL: In the [guimenu]``Earliest`` field, you can set the earliest time the pool creation action should be scheduled.
. OPTIONAL: In the [guimenu]``Add to`` field, you can select a new or existing action chain to add the pool creation action to.
. The [guimenu]``Source`` section contains data about the device holding the pool.
. The [guimenu]``Target`` section contains data about where to find the pool on the virtual host.
```

Author: ACK
